<chapter id="download">
<title>Getting &the.framework;</title>
<sect1 id="download.tarballs">
<title>Sources</title>
<para>
&The.framework; is currently being developed as a part of 
<ulink url="http://extragear.kde.org">kdeextragear-3</ulink>. You can download and compile the the sources yourself, but we recommend using a package for your distribution. 
Using packages will save you a lot of time
and grey hair when dependencies change or files are moved around.
</para>

<para>
Download tarballs of 
<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=89888">kdebluetooth releases</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
Or you can try these untested <ulink url="http://fred.hexbox.de/debian/">snapshots</ulink>.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="download.packages">
<title>Packages</title>
<para>
<variablelist>
<title>Currently supported distributions</title>
<varlistentry>

<term>Debian Sid</term>
<listitem><para>You can use the following lines in your <filename>/etc/apt/sources.list</filename>:
<screen>
# KDE-Bluetooth
deb http://fred.hexbox.de/debian ./
</screen>
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Gentoo Linux</term>
<listitem>
<para>The latest ebuild is already in the gentoo portage tree, you can also check http://bugs.gentoo.org for pending ebuilds not already committed</para>
<para>You can also download a CVS ebuild for kdebluetooth from <ulink url="http://members.xoom.virgilio.it/motaboy/ebuilds">here</ulink>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>SuSe</term>

<listitem><para>You can download the RPM for SuSe 8.2 from
<ulink url="http://sra.itc.it/people/merzi/kdebluetooth-0.0.cvs.20040210.i686.rpm">here</ulink>
(Thanks to Filippo Biondi) for SuSe 9.0 from
<ulink url="http://www.hilzinger.hu/ch/linux.html">here</ulink>
(Thanks to Marcel Hilzinger) or the RPM .spec file for SuSe 9.0 from
<ulink url="http://sra.itc.it/people/merzi/kdebluetooth.spec">here</ulink>
(Thanks to Michael Sabielny).</para>

<para>
1) Get the latest SVN version of kde-bluetooth.
2) Make a bzip'd tar ball of it:
<filename>tar cvjf kdebluetooth.tar.bz2 kdebluetooth</filename>
3) Copy the tar ball to <filename>/usr/src/packages/SOURCES</filename>
4) Copy the spec file to <filename>/usr/src/packages/SPECS</filename>
5) Make sure, that all necessary additional software is installed:
        <filename>kdelibs3 kdelibs3-devel qt3 qt3-devel openobex arts</filename>
        <filename>bluez-sdp bluez-libs bluez-utils xmms xmms-devel</filename>
6) Build the package with
        <filename>cd /usr/src/packages</filename>
        <filename>rpmbuild -ba SPECS/kdebluetooth.spec</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="download.cvs">
<title>Anonymous SVN</title>
<para>
The KDE Bluetooth Framework is being developed in 
<ulink url="http://websvn.kde.org/trunk/extragear/pim/kdebluetooth/">
KDE Extragear</ulink>. The CVS on kde-bluetooth.sf.net is not used anymore.
</para>
<para>
The check out the current development version of kdebluetooth, install subversion and 
do the following:
<screen>
svn checkout -N svn://svn.kde.org/home/kde/trunk/extragear/pim
cd pim
svn checkout svn://anonsvn.kde.org/home/kde/trunk/KDE/kde-common/admin
svn update kdebluetooth
make -f Makefile.cvs
./configure --prefix=$(kde-config --prefix)
cd kdebluetooth
make
make install
</screen>
Depending on your distribution you might have to change some options
of the configure script. If you don't have good reasons not to do so, you should use the prefix of your KDE installation as the prefix for ./configure. See <command>kde-config --prefix</command> to find out the correct prefix and <command>./configure --help</command> for more available options.
</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>
