<chapter id="faq">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>
<qandaset defaultlabel="qanda">

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>My problem isn't listed in this FAQ. Where else can I get help?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>We have a
<ulink url="http://liste.ferrara.linux.it/listinfo/kde-bluetooth">mailinglist</ulink>
where you can post your questions and comments.
Please look in the archive first before posting, but don't hesitate to ask
us if you didn't find anything helpful.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Nothing works, even a command line tool like 
<command>hcitool inq</command> isn't finding anything.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>kdebluetooth depends on a working bluetooth setup.
If this is your problem, you may ask for help on our mailinglist,
but the correct and best place to ask questions about BlueZ are
the <ulink url="http://www.bluez.org">BlueZ</ulink> mailinglists of course.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is kdebluetooth dead? There are no changes to the Sourceforge CVS
anymore.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>kdebluetooth moved to <ulink url="http://websvn.kde.org/trunk/extragear/pim/kdebluetooth/">KDE Extragear</ulink> (<ulink url="http://extragear.kde.org">extragear home</ulink>).</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>My phones asks me for a PIN, but I don't know where to enter it in my computer.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>BlueZ should pop up a PIN dialog automatically, when you use 
<programlisting>security user;</programlisting> in
the <filename>/etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf</filename>. Sometimes the standard 
<command>bluepin</command> utility of BlueZ is not working; you may try to use
our KDE-Style replacement <command>kbluepin</command> instead. Put something like
<programlisting>pin_helper /usr/lib/kdebluetooth/kbluepin;</programlisting> in 
<filename>hcid.conf</filename> and restart BlueZ's <command>hcid</command>.
</para>
<para>
This is acutally a BlueZ issue and has nothing to do with the KDE Bluetooth
Framework as long as you're not using kbluepin. I would like to put
a link to the respective documentation of BlueZ for the pin handling stuff here, 
but I can't find it anywhere at the moment. Hints are welcome :)
</para>
<para>
When you are having constant trouble with kbluepin (or bluepin or any
other pin helper), you should take a look into your logfiles (
<filename>/var/log/syslog</filename> or similar).
</para>
<para>
If you are new to bluetooth please read the <link linkend="concepts.pairing">basics about pairing</link>.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
When I try pair my computer with my phone, KBluetoothD says "Pairing not allowed".
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
If the pin helper for hcid is set up correctly, then a dialog box should pop up,
asking you for the PIN code which you also entered in your phone. 
If you click "Cancel" or if the pin helper program can't be found or started for
some reason, kbluetoothd will pop up a warning. Check your system logs to see
why hcid couldn't launch the pin helper program.
</para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>I want to use a service offered by kdebluetooth, but my client device 
wants to connect to different channel than the one that is
used by kbluetoothd.
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Normally bluetooth services shouldn't use fixed channel numbers, but
use the SDP database to find the correct channel instead. 
But if you really need to, you can copy the respective desktop file from 
<filename>$PREFIX/share/services</filename>
to <filename>$HOME/.kde/share/services</filename> and edit the channel number. This will
override the global settings after a restart of KDE.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
I'm using several dongles on the same PC. How can I select which one to use?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Some of our applications have a command line option to change the default
bluetooth device ('--hcidevice hci1' for instance). As an alternative 
you can also use the environment variable HCI_DEVICE. The latter
might even work for our tools that don't have a command line option.
Note that kbluetoothd iself doesn't work very well with several adaptors
at the moment. 
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>./configure can't find my kdelibs/qt/...</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Make sure you have also installed the development-packages
for the respective library.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>I'm getting error message like: "File generated with too recent version of Qt Designer (3.2 vs. 3.1.x)"</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Qt Designer saves it's version number in the ui files whenever you
touch one. This causes errors when you want to compile kdebluetooth
with an older version of Qt. It seems to be safe to change the
version from 3.2 to 3.1 though. You can do this very easyly by running
the downgrade_ui script if we accidentally committed some changes without
resetting the version numbers.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>I can start kbluetoothd, but the correct icon (K-Bluetooth-Logo) is missing
and a generic document icon is shown instead</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>This usually means that you have installed kdebluetooth to a location 
where KDE doesn't search for resources. It's not enough to have kbluetoothd in the
$PATH. You must also make sure that you use a --prefix for configure which
KDE knows about. You can get the configured KDE icon directories with the kde-config tool: kde-config --path icon. The prefixes used by KDE can be configure with the KDEDIRS environment variable.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>

</chapter>
