<sect1 id="components.kbtobexsrv">
<title>OBEX Push Server: Receive files</title>
<para>
Most Bluetooth-enabled cell phones or PDAs will let you send
files from the mobile to your computer. While it might be more 
comfortable to use the <link linkend="components.kio_obex">OBEX FTP kioslave</link>
to pull the files from your phone to your computer, not all devices
support this. OBEX Object push on the other hand is supported by most 
Bluetooth devices.
</para>

<sect2>
<title>Using the OBEX Push server</title>
<para>
The OBEX Push server is managed by kbluetoothd and will be automatically
started if it is enabled and someone tries to send you some files.
Please see the documentation of kbluetoothd for how to 
<link linkend="components.kbluetoothd.serviceconfig">enable or disable
services</link> (The OBEX Push server is listed as <command>kbtobexsrv</command>).
</para>
<para>
When you send a file from your mobile to your computer, the kbluetoothd
tray icon will turn blue and shows a small popup. By default (depending
on your <link linkend="components.kbluetoothd.confirmation">
settings for incoming connections</link>) you will have to accept the
connection first, then the main OBEX Push window should pop up 
and start receiving the files.
</para>
<para>
Incoming files are saved to <filename>/tmp</filename> and will be deleted
after you closed the OBEX Push server. To save to files, you have two options:
</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Click <guibutton>OK</guibutton> to save all received files to 
a predefined location.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Drag one or several files to some other location. This is especially useful
if you want to send files by email, since you can drag the files 
directly into kmail without saving them to temporary location first.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect2>

</sect1>

