<sect1 id="components.kbtserialchat">
<title>kbtserialchat: A very simple chat tool</title>
<para>
The kbtserialchat tool is a very simple chat client&amp;server.
Its primary purpose is for debugging and to serve as an example on how to
write a bluetooth server that is managed by kbluetoothd
and how to write a client that can be started with the 
<link linkend="components.kio_sdp">SDP kioslave</link>.
</para>

<sect2>
<title>Using the chat tool</title>
<para>
kbtserialchat implements the Serial Port protocol,
so when you start it, it will show you all devices which
provide the Serial Port profile. This will include other computers
where the KDE Bluetooth Framework is installed, but also
phones which support this profile.
</para>
<para>
When you are connecting to another kbtserialchat server, then
kbtserialchat will pop up on the other system and you
can happily send each other stupid text messages.
You can also connect to the serial port of Bluetooth phones
and send arbitrary AT-commands. To dial a number for instance, type
<command>ATD&lt;number&gt;;</command>.
</para>
<para>
While it may not make much sense to connect kbtserialchat to 
a serial port of a device that uses it to exchange binary
data, you can use it not only to connect to serial port services, but
to every service that's based on Rfcomm, like the handsfree or headset
profile. Since these services are not listed in the dialog on startup,
you can use the following trick:
Browse the services of a device with kio_sdp (using a <ulink url="sdp:/">sdp:/</ulink>-URL).
Then instead of simply clicking on the service, right-click on it and
then select <guimenuitem>Open with...</guimenuitem>.
Enter <command>kbtserialchat</command> in the dialog, press enter - and 
you're connected.
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

