<sect1 id="components.kio_sdp">
<title>Bluetooth/SDP-kioslaves: Search for devices and services</title>
<para>
The bluetooth- and sdp-kioslaves let you search for other bluetooth devices and 
list and use their services with konqueror (or any other file manager that can
use KDE's File IO framework).
</para>
<sect2>
<title>Using the Bluetooth/SDP kioslves</title>
<para>To search for devices, simply enter 
<ulink url="bluetooth:/">bluetooth:/</ulink> with konqueror. You will immediately
see an entry for your own system, then after a few seconds other 
discoverable devices will appear one after another.
</para>
<para>
You can also click the Bluetooth-Icon in the konqueror sidebar in 
the "Services"-tab, next to the LAN- and Audio-CD-Browser.
If you can't see the icon it might help to reset the sidebar
with <guimenuitem>config-button -> Add new -> Rollback to system default</guimenuitem>
</para>
<para>
For devices to appear, they must not only be turned on, but
also be in discoverable mode. Otherwise you can connect to them when
you know the address, but they won't respond to an inquiry.
</para>
<para>
When you select a device you will get a listing of the services
published by the device. If the service is supported by kdebluetooth,
you can click it to launch the appropriate application. 
Unless you've disabled it, konqueror will pop up the common file-open-dialog.
In case the service is not known, you will get an open-with-dialog instead.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>
Advanced topics
</title>
<para>
If you know what you're doing, you can also open a given service
(kbthandsfree for instance) with a bluetooth application that was not
designed for that specific profile by right clicking the service
icon and select open with. Every service, that deals with AT-commands
over rfcomm can be opened with <command>kbtserialchat</command> for instance.
</para>
<para>
You can also change the association between applications and (known) profiles
in the same way you select which appliation shall open mpeg-movies or pdf files:
kio_obex assigns mimetype to each listed profile and each client application
of kdebluetooth is associated with the profiles it supoprts.
Support for yet unrecognized porfiles can be added with special desktop
files in <filename>$PREFIX/share/services</filename>, like 
<filename>sdpmime-serial-port-profile.desktop</filename> for instance.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Current limitations</title>
<para>kio_sdp has no support for nested browse groups currently. This won't
be hard to add, but wasn't need so far.</para>
<para>
You can not connect to services of your own system by simply clicking
the "localhost" icon. This was added just as an easy way to see
what services are published by your system.
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>
